openmakeII funded blog (#38)
open-make/openmakewebsite: content/blog/2023-08-02-openmake-ii-funded/index.en.md

---
title: "OpenMake II application: published and funded"
author: Julien Colomb and Robert Mies
date: '2023-11-25'
slug: openmake-ii-funded
categories:
  - progress report
tags:
  - grant
  - progress
  - team work
banner: img/banners/beachopenmake.jpg
---

# OpenMake II

> It is a pleasure to announce that the open make project has been funded for another 2.5 years. The work will become more practical and local.
> We are one of three project that received a second round of [funding by the BUA]( https://www.berlin-university-alliance.de/en/commitments/research-quality/forschung/index.html?ts=1690359598). 
> While you can download the full application on zenodo: https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.8220972, here is a very short summary of our plans.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is a pleasure to announce that the Open.Make project has been funded for another 2.5 years. The work will become more practical and local.
We are one of three projects that received a second round of [funding by the BUA]( https://www.berlin-university-alliance.de/en/commitments/research-quality/forschung/index.html?ts=1690359598). 
While you can download the full application on zenodo: [doi: 10.5281/zenodo.8220972] (https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.8220972), here is a very short summary of our plans.
```

> During the next nearly three years, we will work, on one hand, on hardware publication.
> We will implementation of a technical tool which will allow for the publication of open research hardware.
> Our work inside the RDA will cover the social and research culture aspects of creating a place for hardware publication in academia.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
During the next nearly three years, we will work, on the one hand, on hardware publication.
We will implement a tool for a publication system which will allow for the publication of peer-reviewed open research hardware.
Our work inside the RDA will cover the social and cultural aspects of creating a place for hardware publication in academia.
```

On the other hand, we will work locally. 

> We will build a academic maker community inside the Berlin University Alliance institutions, and offer specific training in  open source hardware development for the university students.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We will build a academic maker community inside the Berlin University Alliance institutions, and offer specific training and teaching formats for open source hardware development for the researchers and students as well as a mobile / pop up workshop.
```

<img src="images/OPEN.MAKE II Poster.pdf" alt="Visual poster of the Open Make project plan. Four working packages are indicated around a figure of the Turing way book representing reasons to open the hardware creation work in academia." width="400px"/>

## The team 

The open make core team does not change. We are welcoming a fourth PI from the Charité, such that all four BUA universities are represented.

> It is also time to congratulate Prof. (!!) Sacha Hodencq, team member as a visiting scientist, who got a permanent position in Grenoble (Maître de conférences). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is also time to congratulate Assitant Professor (!!) Sacha Hodencq, team member as guest researcher at TU Berlin, who got a permanent position in Grenoble (Maître de conférences). 
```

> Our second visitor, Dr. Julieta Arancio, got a wonderful opportunity as an [open accelerator fellow by Open Research Funders group](https://www.orfg.org/news/2023/10/02/orfg-welcomes-julieta-arancio-as-open-accelerator-fellow). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our second guest researcher also at TU Berlin, Dr. Julieta Arancio, got a wonderful opportunity as an [open accelerator fellow by Open Research Funders group](https://www.orfg.org/news/2023/10/02/orfg-welcomes-julieta-arancio-as-open-accelerator-fellow). 
```

> Robert Mies will defend his PhD thesis early next year, he was also involved in another successful  grant application (Local Accessible Urban Digital and Sustainable Factories -LAUDS-, 2024-2027, Horizon Europe).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Robert Mies will defend his PhD thesis early next year, he was also involved in another successful grant application (Local Accessible Urban Digital and Sustainable Factories -LAUDS-, 2024-2026, Horizon Europe).
```
